---
layout: jobpost
title: "Application Scientist (Computational Chemistry)"
---

### Application Scientist (Computational Chemistry)

Location: Vancouver, Canada.

### Who are we:
HTuO Biosciences is a rapidly growing biotechnology company working at the interface of drug discovery and computer programming, using a physics-based technology to accurately predict the behaviour and interactions between molecules. Our technology will be a major advance in drug discovery, significantly improving the rate at which we can develop new drugs.

At HTuO, we value creativity and integrity and expect high performance from all of our staff. We believe in creating a diverse work environment that is balanced, supportive, and encourages a healthy work-life balance.

### Who are you: 
This opening is for a highly qualified and self-motivated individual to support our latest generation force field (AtomForge) as a Field Application Scientist, with a strong focus on utilizing AtomForge in drug discovery. As a member of the HTuO Biosciences application support team, the candidate will work with a multi-disciplinary team that includes business development, marketing, computational chemistry scientists, and software engineers. The primary responsibilities will be supporting the teams by providing support for the newest AtomForge technology. The focus will be on the small-molecule drug discovery market, with an emphasis on molecular dynamics and free energy calculations.

This is an exciting, internal and field-based, customer-facing position within HTuO Biosciences’ Computational Chemistry Application Science team. Working with the Director of Business Development and the Lead Computational Chemist, you will interact with a wide range of CADD users to discuss, present, and demonstrate how HTuO’s AtomForge software and services provide the most accurate and scalable molecular modelling technology available. 

As part of the pre-sales process, you will periodically be required to analyze customer CADD data and present results back to the prospective customer. Additionally, you will be responsible for educating customers on the various features and how the AtomForge works overall. As needed, you may be called on to manage the onboarding process. This role requires a high degree of organizational skills to manage various tasks for different account managers and customers in your territory. 

This is a full-time, hybrid position. Additional activities will likely include tracking customer requests, working with existing customers to resolve problems, gathering requirements and mock-up new features, working across teams on feature implementation, working with the computational chemistry team on customer projects, and customer communication.

### Responsibilities

* Deliver pre-sales product demonstrations and education to computational chemists and R&D directors to showcase the value and effectiveness of AtomForge’s applications.
* Manage customer interactions with the service delivery team and shepherd projects through their lifecycle from onboarding through to completion.
* Gather and track customer feedback at all stages of the relationship.
* Help troubleshoot customer data or implementation problems.
* Engage in scientific discussions with customers, cultivate relationships and ensure customer success.
* Work with customers and product managers to refine requirements and provide guidance on the implementation of new features.
* Attend chemistry-focused drug discovery conferences. 
* Provide pre- and post-sales technical and application assistance in response to customer enquiries (both internal and external), including education, training, on-site visits, and remote/virtual support.
* Build new customer advocates from newly completed sales.
* Assist with customer demonstrations as appropriate.
* Prepare and present technical seminars to existing and potential customers, either as part of the sales process or at organized events.
* Deepen and broaden HTuO’s customer relationships with key scientific and educational leaders.
* Assist in developing insightful content; examples include company-hosted websites, videos, seminars, applications reports, eLearning material, etc.

### Position Requirements

* 5+ years of related experience with a master’s degree is required, or 2+ years of related experience with a PhD is preferred.
* 3+ years of hands-on computational chemistry experience, including molecular modelling and dynamics.
* Prior experience with force fields.
* Experience with hands-on usage of various CADD tools
* Involvement working with lab managers and computational chemists
* Fluency and clear spoken English is a must
* Have exceptional written, presentation, and verbal skills, including strong public speaking experience.
* Excellent interpersonal and relationship-building skills
* Ability to multitask various assignments and proven ability to meet strict deadlines.

### Personal Requirements

* This position will require extensive contact with customers, so outstanding verbal and written communication skills are required.
* A proven track record of working independently and a strong work ethic is critical.
* Comfortable working within the ambiguous start-up environment.
* Proactive, self-starter who can handle and manage multiple tasks in a result-orientated commercial environment.
* Excellent project and network management skills and strong organizational skills
* HTuO currently uses a hybrid model, with this role expected to be in the office three days each week, and the successful candidate should be prepared to travel as much as 20%.  

### Compensation
* Base Salary:  $80-100k CAD
* Additional benefits include participation in our company stock option plan, health benefits, and relocation assistance.
* Please apply with a cover letter and include the word 'water' in it.

### How to apply:

To be considered for this position, please email the following to [careers@htuobio.com](mailto:careers@htuobio.com):
* Resume
* Cover Letter, including:
  * General overview of your interest in this role
  * Your qualifications and relevant experience(s)
  * Please incorporate the word ‘water’ in your cover letter